---
layout: customPost
title:  "Blogging with Jekyll"
date:   2017-02-17 12:39:57 -0800
categories: blogging tutorial jekyll 
---
`Jekyll` is an lightweight blogging engine built on top of `Ruby on Rails`. The engine has tons of customization options allowing you to create posts by simply writing markdown in a file. This static file allows copywriters to create new posts easily using the editor of their choice and leaves a chance to use version control. 

The documentation can be found on [their Website](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home/). This tutorial works from the `3.4.0` of Jekyll built on `2.3.1` of Ruby. Jekyll is built on the principle of convention over configuration that uses a defined behavior for patterns that avoids recreating the wheel every time you want to start a new blog. 
    
eg. The build tool looks for `SASS /  SCSS` files in the `_SASS` folder and automatically compiles the result to a `_site/assets`. 

It allows for syntax highlighting in code blocks that you may wish to embed in your blog post
{%highlight ruby linenos%}
--- 
layout : post
title : "Blogging in Jekyll"
date : "2017-02-14 05:00 -500"
---
{%endhighlight%}  

The header for a typical Jekyll post contains meta information about the blog post including the date it was published / written and the title and the categories that the author wishes to attach to the 

Why Jekyll is particularly suitable for your technology blog.

Although Jekyll does not require any coding per se. It allows you to create dynamic components that you can add to the static pages. 



